# Record-Prediction

The Python file is the script I used to predict the final record of MLB teams using their team stats up to a certain point in the season. I used Random Forest Regressor and XGBoost to predict an actual number of wins. I ran Random Forest Classifier and Logistic Regression to predict if the team would win 81 or more games. 

I originally scraped data from ESPN so I could practice that skill but I was eventually blocked from doing so. Therefore I left my code for that at the top of the file but commented out. I used R to get the same data from Fangraphs and then transferred it over to this file. The data it was trained and tested on was from 2002 up to 2022 but it excludes the data from 2020 due to the shortened season. Also in order to fit mid-season stats to predict the final outcome I had to average all of the counting stats. I made a separate file for the 2023 data to make it easier to see what the model would predict for just this season. I also made a data frame with the team and their predicted record that I would print out. At the end of each predictor, I put the feature importance to see what had the most effect and optimized the model by trying to find the best hyperparameters. I used a data correlation heat map to limit the multi-collinearity of the terms. 

RESULTS:

The initial results from the ESPN data and the Random Forest predictions were not super accurate. The regression and classifier models loved all of the pitching data compared to the hitting data. The regression weighed ERA by far the most at around 40%. It wasn't terribly far off on who the good teams were but it didn't predict anyone to win over 94 games. I think there is also an argument to be made that the good teams this year have relied on offense in a way we haven't seen in a while (Rays, Rangers, etc). Thus it's possible the model may be off because of that. However, I suspect this just isn't the best way to predict the number of wins a team will have. I'm currently looking at making a model using more advanced stats to see if the traditional stats are bad for predictive value. 

Currently, I'm working through a bug on the R file where I can no longer get data from Fangraphs and therefore the Python file won't run. This happened before I was able to copy down the results for everything. I will update this with the actual printed results when that is resolved. 
